Additive feature attribution.
So, additive feature attribution methods are
simple models that are used to explain complex models.
So, you can see the formula that I pasted here on page three of the paper.
So, if I went to the paper itself,
let's say, we'll go to page three.
So, I'm just showing this formula right here inside the Jupyter Notebook.
It looks a little bit intimidating,
but it's more or less.
You can think of it as you're summing things together.
You're simply adding a couple of things together and you're getting a result.
This is how I'm trying to explain what this formula means.
So, think of our tree model as the complex model
that we wish to explain with a simple linear model.
So, notice this is a linear model because it's just simply adding things up.
So, the above formula is saying that we can
take a single data point with the three features.
So, the three features from our example in
this Notebook and a complex model makes a prediction.
We can divide up that prediction among the three features based on
how important those features are to the complex model's prediction,
and also based on whether the feature value pushes
the prediction in the positive or negative direction.
So, we'll have an example of that might make this more concrete,
but you can think of all these features as being stacked up
together like a seven-layer data or like a lasagna or like a tiramisu cake.
Can you tell them hungry? So, this is related to the idea of coalition game theory.
Because imagine a team of basketball players score is 100 points in a game.
We're trying to attribute part of the final score to each member
of the team based on their contributions or importance.
So, one point to note is most of the time you may think,
so each players scored a certain number of positive points.
You can imagine if a player made
some mistakes maybe you could attribute negative points to them as well.
All of the contributions of all these players adds up to those 100 points for the game.
So, when the contribution of each feature are added
up to equal the complex model's prediction,
the linear combination or contributions is
the simple linear model that is being used to explain the complex model.
So, this is the idea of machine-learning interpretability to explain
a complex non-linear model using a simple explainable linear model.